docsource/glossary.rst, before:

Glossary of terms
#################

For users
*********

.. glossary::

    Workflow
        *(aka Batch, aka Swarm)*
        Has a TaskDag and a set of WorkflowArgs.  Optionally, a subset of
        WorkflowArgs may be passed to TaskDag and inform the shape of the Dag
        itself. A Workflow can only be re-loaded if the TaskDag and
        WorkflowArgs are shown to be exact matches to a previous Workflow (have
        to work out how to hash+compare).

        .. todo::
            Work out how to hash+compare TaskDag+WorkflowArgs so we can
            differentiate one Workflow from another and determine when a new
            Workflow is required vs. simply a new WorkflowRun

        .. todo::
            Consider capturing the pip freeze or other environmental markers as
            part of the Workflow hash?)

    WorkflowArgs
        A set of arguments that are used to deteremine the "uniqueness" of the
        Workflow and whether it can be resumed. Must be hashable.  For example,
        CodCorrect or Como version might be passed as Args to the Workflow.
        Coupled with a populated TaskDag (which must be hashable upon
        execution....  somehow) they define a Workflow.

    WorkflowRun
        A Workflow may be started/paused/ and resumed multiple times.  Each
        start or resume represents a new WorkflowRun. In order for a Workflow
        can be deemed to be complete (successfully), it must have 1 or more
        WorkflowRuns. A WorkflowJob may belong to one or more WorkflowRuns, but
        once the Job reaches a COMPLETE state, it may longer be added to a
        subsequent WorkflowRun.

    TaskDag
        A set of Tasks. Upon calling "execute()," it is frozen (i.e.  becomes
        immutable for the lifetime of the Workflow). It must be hashable in
        this frozen state.

    Task
        *(aka WorkflowJob, aka "Job that may have up/downstream dependencies")*
        Can be created using the TaskDag method create_task().  Represents a
        unit of work with potential upstream/downstream dependencies.

    Job
        *(an executable unit of work)*
        When a Workflow is first created, all its Jobs are populated in the
        database. A Job is tightly linked to a set of JobInstances. The only
        difference between a Job and a Task is that a Task is a Job that has
        dependencies or dependents.


For developers
**************

You'll want to study to the :doc:`API Reference <modules>`.

Commit message:

update docs to reflect actual Workflow implementation; move Workflow docs into quickstart; update doc layout to reflect Workflow as preferred jobmon entrypoint; minor updates to .jobmonrc configuration and docker-compose to separate service locations between releases; print workflow results on completion

docsource/glossary.rst, after:

Glossary of terms
#################

For users
*********

.. glossary::

    Workflow
        *(aka Batch, aka Swarm)*
        Has a TaskDag and a set of WorkflowArgs. A Workflow can only be
        re-loaded if the TaskDag and WorkflowArgs are shown to be exact matches
        to a previous Workflow.

        .. todo::
            Consider capturing the pip freeze or other environmental markers as
            part of the Workflow hash?)

        .. todo::
            Explore a mechanism by which a subset of WorkflowArgs may be passed
            to TaskDag and inform the shape of the Dag itself. This would
            enable more extensive code-reuse, but would require more
            intelligence in the Tasks themselves.

    WorkflowArgs
        A set of arguments that are used to deteremine the "uniqueness" of the
        Workflow and whether it can be resumed. Must be hashable. For example,
        CodCorrect or Como version might be passed as Args to the Workflow.
        Coupled with a populated TaskDag, WorkflowArgs define a Workflow.

    WorkflowRun
        WorkflowRun enables tracking for multiple runs of a single Workflow. A
        Workflow may be started/paused/ and resumed multiple times. Each start
        or resume represents a new WorkflowRun.

        In order for a Workflow can be deemed to be DONE (successfully), it must
        have 1 or more WorkflowRuns. In the current implementation, a Workflow Job
        may belong to one or more WorkflowRuns, but once the Job reaches a DONE
        state, it will no longer be added to a subsequent WorkflowRun. However,
        this is not enforced via any database constraints.

    TaskDag
        A set of Tasks. Upon calling "execute()," it is frozen (i.e.  becomes
        immutable for the lifetime of the Workflow). It must be hashable in
        this frozen state.

    Task
        *(aka WorkflowJob, aka "Job that may have up/downstream dependencies")*
        Can be created using the TaskDag method create_task(). Represents a
        unit of work with potential upstream/downstream dependencies.

    Job
        *(an executable unit of work)*
        When a Workflow is first created, all its Jobs are populated in the
        database. A Job is tightly linked to a set of JobInstances. The only
        difference between a Job and a Task is that a Task is a Job that has
        dependencies or dependents.


For developers
**************

You'll want to study to the :doc:`API Reference <modules>`.
